---
layout: post
title: Building Android ADB from minimal sources
comments: true
---

At some point I wanted to have a new version of Android's <abbr title="Android Debug Bridge">adb</abbr> utility as mine was lacking the *show-progress* capability during `adb push -p` which is very helpful for me as I often push large files over <abbr title="Android Debug Bridge">adb</abbr> and by default no progress information is shown at all. However, having to download the whole 2 GB of Android sources just to be able to build <abbr title="Android Debug Bridge">adb</abbr> was daunting which made me look for possibilities on how to setup a minimal build environment.

Luckily, I found [Mark Seaborn's blogpost][1] with some instructions for an older version of the Android build environment. This helped me to setup an equivalent build environment for the current Android source version.

If using linux and the apt application manager is used, first you need to install the following packages:

    sudo apt-get install git build-essential libncurses5-dev

Change to a folder where all the sources should be stored

    mkdir -p ~/work/adb
    cd ~/work/adb
    
Then clone all the necessary git repositories needed to build <abbr title="Android Debug Bridge">adb</abbr> from Google's servers

    git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/core.git system/core
    git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/build.git
    git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/external/zlib.git external/zlib
    git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/bionic.git
    git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/external/stlport.git external/stlport
    git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/external/libcxx.git external/libcxx
    git clone https://android.googlesource.com/platform/external/openssl.git external/openssl
    
Around ~79 MB need to be downloaded. Afterwards the directory structure should look like

    sonntag@ubuntubox:~/work/adb$ ls
    bionic  build  external  system  Makefile
    
    sonntag@ubuntubox:~/work/adb$ du -hd1
    40M     ./bionic
    19M     ./system
    40M     ./build
    92M     ./external
    189M    .

Before we can build <abbr title="Android Debug Bridge">adb</abbr>, a build script has to be modified as [was pointed out][1] by Mark Seaborn. We have to disable the Java checks as we don't need it to build <abbr title="Android Debug Bridge">adb</abbr>. You can do it manually by editing the files

   - __build/core/main.mk__      
     Comment out all the lines `$(error stop)` after a check for Java/JDK/OpenJDK.
      
   - __build/target/product/sdk.mk__      
     Comment out all the `-include external/svox/pico/lang/PicoLang*` lines at the end of the file
      
or you can simply use the patch file [I provide here][2]. Change to the `build` directory

    cd build
    
and then you may call

    git apply --stat adb_build.patch
    git apply --check adb_build.patch

which will not really apply the patch but give you a brief overview of the changes the patch would apply as well as check for possible errors. Finally call

    git apply adb_build.patch
    
to apply the patch.

Now you can start the build procedure by executing

    make -j4 out/host/linux-x86/bin/adb

The `-j4` argument tells make to start up to 4 processes in parallel for compilation of source files. Set this number to the number of <abbr>CPU</abbr> cores you have on your computer. After a little while you shoud find your brand new _adb_ executable in the `out/host/linux-x86/bin` directory.

[1]: http://lackingrhoticity.blogspot.de/2010/02/how-to-build-adb-android-debugger.html  "How to build adb, the Android debugger"
[2]: /assets/adb_build.patch "Patch for minimal ADB build environment"